# "I'm thinking about getting a stage 3 cam..."

The "stage 3" part is nowhere near as informative as you think.
It means something different to each manufacturer, so it means nothing to you and nothing to those of us whose input, feedback, or suggestions you're asking for.
Labeling cams with "stage" numbers is radically oversimplified and meaningless for comparison.

## Three Parameters
Cam design is pretty complex, but there is a middle ground that enables people to make somewhat useful comparisons.
Consider these three parameters:

**Intake Valve Closing Angle** - This refers to where the piston is when the intake valve closes. A later IVC allows more time for the cylinder to fill, so allows more peak power, but at the expense of low-RPM power (aka torque).

**Overlap** - This refers to the amount of time (as measured in degrees of crankshaft rotation) that the intake and exhaust valves are both open. More allows for more power, but at the expense of low-RPM stability (lumpy idle, surging at low RPM).

**Valve Lift** - This is pretty self-explanatory, I hope.
Most cam manufacturers don't provide those specs, but if you have the usual specs you can calculate IVC and overlap [here](https://www.summitracing.com/newsandevents/calcsandtools/summit-cam-timing-calculator). Use the specs from 0.050 valve lift.

## Considerations
The data points below all assume a 5.7 liter LS1 or LS6 such as you'll find in C5 Corvettes, because that's what I have.

**How much surging are you willing to put up with in low gears / at low speeds?** 
That will give you a rough idea of how much overlap you can tolerate.
More overlap means more power (up to a point, of course)
More overlap also means more surge at low RPM.
More overlap also means the powerband won't start until higher RPM.

The stock LS6 cam has -23 degrees overlap. (Or +23 of underlap, if you prefer.)
Somewhere around +10 degrees of overlap, things are going to rough enough that not everyone is going to be happy. Opinions differ on how much is too much, of course.

**How high of an RPM are you willing to tolerate before the engine makes real power?**
That will indicate the intake valve closing angle.
An earlier IVC will give you power at a lower RPM, at the expense of high-RPM power.
A later IVC will give you more peak power at higher RPM, but the powerband will start at higher RPM.
The stock LS6 cam has an IVC of 42 degrees.
Truck cams are lower, like in the low-mid 30s.
Drag-race cams will have higher IVC, like up around 50+.

**How often are you willing to change valve springs?**
That will indicate how much lift you should run.
Off-the-shelf cams will have lift up to about .600 or so, and suitable spring kits are easy to find.
As go you bigger, you compromise spring life, you need stronger pushrods (due to stiffer springs), and so on.
If you're looking for more, you probably don't need any of the information on this page.

## Yes, there's more to know
But these will give you rough idea of what to look for in a cam.
If you're not thinking / discussing with at least this much information in mind, you're basically just rolling the dice.
Everybody has their own idea of what constitutes a good cam for a particular usage scenario.